Welcome to What's New in Cocoa Touch.
I'm glad to see everybody
here so bright and early.
It was a little early for me too.
This is session 100.
I'm going to be spending the next roughly
an hour or so talking about some of the
smaller things that we've added to UIKit,
some of the larger features that we're
putting into UIKit to support your
applications and then some of the other
APIs that have gone into other frameworks
or talk about some new frameworks that
are going to appear on the system.
So let's get started.
We've added just a
little tiny new control.
If you were getting numeric
input from your users before,
you were probably doing something
like throwing up a UI text field
and trying to validate that
input when the user typed in.
You might have used a picker view
and the user scrolling through
to find a number that they want.
This is a new control UI stepper.
It has a minimum and maximum value so you
can limit your users to a specific range.
It has a step value so you can
choose how fast they move up
through that range when they're
hitting the plus and minus buttons.
You can obviously pull the value out.
There are some properties here that
you can set for things like whether or
not the control operates continuously,
whether it's auto-repeating.
You don't have to do memory management
on this just for the values,
really.
That's not necessary.
And whether or not it wraps.
So if you hit the minimum
value on the way down,
whether it pops back up
to the maximum value.
This is also sized really
well to fit inside the default
height for a UI table view cell.
So if you're putting a number
of different places where your
user's going to get numeric
input in one of those tables,
this is a great control to use.
Here's our old friend, UI Alert View.
We've seen some pretty amazing
things that people have done in order
to get input from UI Alert View.
So we thought we'd make this
a little bit easier for you.
In iOS 5.0,
this is now UI alert view style default.
It's what you get when you
first create a UI alert view and
you send the init with title,
cancel buttons, message,
that whole long selector.
We now also have UI alert
view style plain text input.
So if you have to ask
your user something,
this is a great way to do it.
We've also given you
UI Alert View style secure text input.
So if you'd like to get a password--
This is how to do it.
If you'd like to get login
and password information,
we have a style for that too.
So UIAlertViewStyle,
login and password input,
and we even go ahead and put
a little placeholder text
up there to guide your user.
This is all defined in
the UIAlertViewHeader,
UIAlertViewStyles,
there are four of them, the default,
the secure text input, plain text input,
and login and password input.
And you'll initialize a
UIAlertView and then send it
the setAlertViewStyle message,
pick one of these,
and when you go and present it,
it will come up with that style.
The text fielded index method is
how you get at the text field that
the user was typing into or the text
fields that the user was typing into.
That's a--there's only one index,
index zero for the first two,
secure text input and
plain text input styles,
and then there's a zero and one
for login and password input.
So UIAlertView has some easier
ways perhaps to get user input.
In a previous version of iOS,
we introduced the ability to
plug your device into a screen,
right, and get TV out and see that
UI screen instance as an
external screen to the device.
But if you're displaying
a bunch of content,
right, you've got this great image that
you want to display or you've got
a movie maybe that you're playing
out on that external screen,
some televisions do this thing to
you called over scanning and it kind
of crops out bits of the content,
right.
And there are a couple of
different ways you can handle this.
You can try to scale your content,
you can kind of guess at
what's happening in the screen,
but it would be a lot easier if
we actually helped you guys out.
So, we're doing that.
A quick refresher on UI screen though.
UI screen has two really
important properties.
There's the bounds of the UI screen
and there's the interface.
So, for the main screen,
the bounds in the application
frame are usually the same,
although we do inset it a
little bit for things like the
status bar and stuff like that.
We expect that you'll keep your
content in the application frame.
That's actually the concept
to keep in mind here.
So, we're going to go ahead and
inset that under certain
circumstances when you plug in.
So, for a 720p screen when you plug in,
if it's not doing any over scanning,
The bounds and the application frame are
the same across all possible options.
So you can either scale the content,
you'll be able to inset the
bounds or inset the app frame
when a screen is over scanning.
For a 720p over scanning screen,
If you tell us to scale,
we'll go ahead and just
throw the content up,
the bounds in the application
frame will be the same.
If you tell us to inset
the bounds of the screen,
we're going to take that 0, 0,
1280 by 720 bounds for the screen
and we'll inset it about 5,
between 5 and 10%, right?
And if you've done a lot of
media work with movies and
things like that on televisions,
this is the content safe area.
Right, so when you overscan,
if it's going to stretch that content,
it's going to stretch it off the screen.
The content safe area is what's
going to stay on the screen.
Right, you also have the option
to inset the app frame.
So the bounds will stay the same.
That may wind up going
outside the television itself
as the screen overscans,
but the application frame is
inset to the content safe area.
And that's the overscan
compensation enum here.
So UI overscan compensation scale,
I'm not going to read the prefix there.
Inset bounds or inset application frame.
So this is your opportunity
to make sure that,
for instance,
if you have your own closed captioning
track or your own content that
you're playing over a movie or
over content on an external screen,
you can keep that in the application
frame and in the content safe area.
So there's a read write property,
I'm sorry, read only property on,
it's a read write property on UI screen.
You tell us what to do when we discover
that the screen is overscanning.
Okay.
Here we have a delightful iBook style
app that only reads Lorem Ipsum text.
But that slider at the bottom now
can--you can hook that up to control
the screen brightness of the device.
So you may find also that once
you've messed around with the screen
brightness and the user's taken it
all the way down as far as they can
go without the backlight going off,
that it's still not quite dark
enough for what you want to do.
And we've also put in a software
dimming system for that.
So there are two properties
now also on UIScreen.
The brightness is a CG float.
It runs from 0 to 1.
You can run it down all
the way if you want.
And the want software dimming flag here
is how we're going to go further than
what the hardware backlight allows.
So if you want to be able
to get a dimmer effect,
kind of like the one
that we do in iBooks,
you can set this flag,
and we'll go ahead and rescale.
The brightness still goes from 0 to 1,
but when you get to a certain point
and the backlight can't go any further,
UIKit will composite a view over
your content and start tweaking
the alpha on that to make it look
dimmer than the hardware will allow.
And we'll scale.
We'll scale this depending on
what the hardware is doing.
So if the hardware can
actually go all the way down,
you may not get this view.
But the thing to bear in mind with
want software dimming is there's a
very real performance hit for this.
If you have lots of dynamic content
or if you have lots of animations,
if you turn this on, we're compositing a
view over your content,
so you may take a frame rate hit.
So use this cautiously.
If you use this for lots of static
input or static content behind things.
So this is a UI scroll view and there
are a number of places where we go
ahead and tell you where the scroll
view is going to land but if the
user just goes ahead and scrolls,
well,
it kind of landed wherever we decided
it was going to land which may not
necessarily be quite where you wanted it.
So you probably wanted it to land
exactly on a specific location,
right?
Your designer tells you to make
sure that you've only got five
UI table view cells up there,
something like that.
There is a new UI scroll
view delegate method
Here it is.
Scroll view will end dragging with
velocity and target content offset.
This is where you can decide exactly
where the UI scroll view is going
to land when the user flicks it.
So when the user's finger comes up,
your delegate gets sent this message.
The velocity is in points per second
and the target content offset comes
in where we tell you this is where
we're going to put it and you can
fill that in out pointer in with a new
CG point where you want it to land.
So you'll be able to adjust the
resting point of a UI scroll view.
This does change the
physics of a scroll view,
right?
So one of the things that's pretty
consistent across iOS and all the
applications is if the user really
flicks one of these scroll views,
it comes to rest at sort of a known pace,
right?
So if you're going to use this,
use it to come within a couple of
pixels of a resting destination.
If you bring the scroll
view to a screeching halt,
it's going to feel funny
in your application,
right?
So you saw Scott demo the text system
define mechanism that's now system wide.
And the short answer with
this is if you can select it
and we can find a definition,
we'll display it in the UI.
So this is built into the text system.
So if you're using UI text field,
if you're using UI text view,
if you're using a web
view to display content,
your users will be able to select
a word and get a definition
anywhere in the system.
There are a number of applications
we've seen that actually aren't using
the text system directly or probably
striking your glyphs directly with
core text and things like that.
If you're doing that and you want
to be able to display definitions
in your own applications,
we have the UI reference
library view controller.
It looks like this on the
phone and this on the iPad.
It comes up in a popover.
And the API for that is
pretty straightforward.
It looks like this.
You can init one of these with a
term and the view controller that
you get back is suitable for pushing
on to a navigation controller.
It's suitable for putting--
displaying modally.
It's also got a dictionary
has definition for term.
And this is your opportunity to decide
whether or not you're going to display
UI for a particular definition.
Or if we can find a
definition or if we can't,
you can switch on this to figure
out whether or not you're going to
enable a button or show the UI itself.
So here's a split view controller.
Speaking of crazy things that we've seen.
If you rotated a split view controller,
you got this.
What you might have wanted was this.
And so we're doing that in iOS 5 also.
There's a UI split view
controller delegate method.
A split view controller should hide
view controller in orientation.
When you rotate the device,
if you implement this delegate method,
you'll get a ping back that tells you
which split view controller is involved,
whether it should hide a
particular view controller,
and in what orientation it
should hide the view controller.
In 5.0, we're only calling this on that
left-hand view controller right now.
But there may be a time in the
future when we wind up calling
this on every view controller
in the split view controller.
But now you can keep that split view
controller with both view controllers
visible in portrait orientation.
There are a lot of places in your
UI where you might want to be able to use
an entire UI table view cell as a cut,
copy, paste target.
So rather than go through and try
to work with the responder chain
and use a text field or maybe a view
over the entire table view cell,
we're adding API to be able to use
the entire cell as a menu target.
So you'll be able to display menus
for specific table view cells.
There are three new table
view delegate methods.
Table view should show menu for row
at index path is where you decide
whether or not the menu will appear.
Table view can perform action for row at
index path is basically the same thing
as the corresponding UI responder method,
right?
This is your opportunity to decide
whether or not a particular action should
be performed for that table view cell.
So if you can't cut or copy,
you can return no from this.
And finally,
Table view perform action for row at
index is where you're told the table
view and what action is being performed
and which cell it's being performed on.
So this is where you're actually
going to go ahead and call,
cut, copy, or paste on the particular
table view cell.
So these are all basically delegate
methods that mirror the responder
behavior but for UI table view cells.
We're also allowing you now
to reuse cells with nibs,
right?
So if you have a table view cell
that you've painstakingly laid
out in Interface Builder and
you'd like to be able to use that
as with the table view itself,
you can register that nib for
the cell reuse identifier.
So remember when the delegate
gets called and says,
okay,
I don't have a table view cell for this,
go create one.
Rather than getting the
call to go create one,
we will go ahead and automatically start
creating table view cells out of that
UI nib instance that you handed us.
So this cuts back a little bit on some
of the code that you have to write
in order to use table view cells.
Amen.
There is a UI Table View Changes
Tips and Tricks talk that's Thursday in
Nob Hill at 2 o'clock where we'll
be talking about a number of other
things like the ability to use
static content in a table view.
So if you had just a list of
items to put into a table view,
we've now written a bunch of
code so that you don't have to.
You can just give us the list
and we'll generate the table
view data source for that.
And a number of other nifty APIs like
being able to move entire sections and
cells at index paths and stuff like that.
So if you're doing a
lot of table view work,
this will be a great talk to go to.
So you saw the new keyboard.
This is the usual keyboard on the iPad,
right?
When it comes up,
it's always pinned to the bottom.
It always has the same height.
But in iOS 5,
we've introduced this new split keyboard.
And there are two really important
things about the split keyboard.
The first is the user
can move it anywhere.
And the second is you probably
want to avoid the keyboard now
that it can show up in more places.
So we have two new
notifications for this.
They're in UI Window along
with the old ones.
There we go.
UI keyboard will change
frame notification and did
change frame notification.
These are now sent on
any keyboard change.
So this includes pairing your
device with a Bluetooth keyboard.
This includes when the user
undocks the keyboard and splits it.
It also includes when the user
is moving the keyboard around.
So you can find out where the
split keyboard is and actually
change your content underneath
it in order to avoid it,
right?
These are in screen
coordinates by the way,
so you'll probably have to do a
transform to figure out what direction
you need to move your content.
And we now have support in
UIKit for animated images.
This is pretty straightforward.
It matches some other
naming conventions we have.
But animated image named and duration.
So if you give us a name, like, say,
image,
we start looking for an image named
image zero in all our supported formats,
or image one in all
our supported formats.
And then we'll run up the numbers
until we stop finding images.
We'll take all of those images together
and put them into a single UI image
that animates over a given duration.
So it's just going to keep cycling
that animation all the way through.
You can also, if you've been generating
your own images,
you can use animated image with images,
provide us an NSArray of images,
and we'll go ahead and
animate those also.
So you may have generated a
bunch of UI images for your UI,
or the user's done something,
you've collected all of those images,
you're going to animate them over time.
You can do that.
There are two read-only properties,
NSArray images, and the duration,
which is in this time interval.
So if you do create one of these,
you don't get to sort of just wedge
an image there in the middle and
have it show up in the animation.
You'll have to recreate the
animated image to get that to work.
We've also added some new API to
do stretching and tiling of images.
So we had some other stuff.
You can also use content
center and things like that.
But we tried to make this as
simple as possible with one API.
So resizable image with cap insets
allows you to specify a UI edge inset.
And then we'll make some decisions
based on that as to how we will stretch
or tile the images that you give us.
All right.
So you start with an existing image.
You send that image,
resizable image with cap insets.
If you were to specify for
this image a cap inset of 0101,
remember that's top left, bottom right,
we would take that middle section and
stretch that as the image gets wider,
right?
So this basically allows you to
create a three-part stretchable image.
If you were to do it for a larger image,
right,
that inset now specifies a bigger block.
It's not a one pixel slice,
it's a four pixel slice.
If you were to resize this image now,
we would take that middle section and
tile it across rather than stretch it.
So if you've got images that your
designers handed you and you're
going to stretch all this stuff out,
this is an easy way to do it.
And we also allow you to create
nine part images doing this as well.
So if you're to specify insets of 1111,
we'll take that.
The corners will be a static size.
As you resize this image horizontally,
the middle sections will get tiled.
And if you resize it vertically,
those middle sections across the
center horizontally will get tiled.
So constructing images that do this
well is probably a good task for
somebody who's really good at Photoshop.
But this makes it really easy to be able
to do those kinds of tilings for you.
And we also can do this with
animated images as well.
So if you have a series of these,
you can do animated
resizable image named,
cap insets,
duration and then as you resize it,
we're going ahead and animating all
of those images behind the scenes.
Most of the places where you see
UIKit API that takes a UI image,
you can pass it one of these
animated images as well,
right?
So that will work also.
Here is some boilerplate code.
How many of you have
written in code like this?
Right?
Oh, I hit a button and then I have to go
find out what navigation controller
I was in and then I will create a new
UI view controller based on that and then
I will push that UI view controller on
to the navigation controller and there's
probably thousands of instances of this
in your own code right off the bat.
It would be great if you could go
through and draw your application
out and draw the workflow of your
application out without having
to write a bunch of that code.
And the DevTools guys probably
demoed this yesterday.
I wasn't able to go to it unfortunately.
They've developed a thing
called storyboarding,
right, where you lay out your application
and the workflow of your application
in Xcode and they'll drive the
events from within the storyboard.
In this case,
we've got a navigation controller
that's the root view controller.
It has a table view, right,
one of those static content
table views that you can learn
about in the UI table view talk.
And that next icon there is a segue.
It's a transition from one
view controller to another,
right?
So when you're participating
in a storyboard,
the storyboard is kind of
a framework that drives the
events of your application.
You can find out what's happening
in your storyboards because
we've given you API for that.
There's a storyboard accessor
that's a read-only accessor that
tells you what storyboard is
associated with your view controller,
right?
So when you fire up your storyboard-based
app and you want to know what's
going on in the storyboard,
this is how you find out which
storyboard you're associated with.
There are also two methods
on UI view controller itself.
Every segue in a storyboard
has a segue identifier.
It's an NSString.
So if you want to drive one
of these transitions yourself,
you can do that.
Perform segue with identifier sender.
It's sort of a target action type thing.
And then if a segue occurs,
your view controller will get
notified of it on this prepare
for segue sender method.
And this gives you the full
UI storyboard segue object.
It's going to tell you all about
the context of what's happening,
right?
Is it a UI navigation controller push?
Is it a modal presentation?
All of those things.
So storyboards give you a
really powerful way to be able
to sketch out your application,
but they don't tie you
into it completely.
So you can hit a certain point in
the workflow and decide that you're
going to take over in code from there.
And then you can always get
back to the storyboard workflow.
Maybe by using perform
segue with identifier,
right?
So there's a good flexible point
where you can use storyboards,
but you're not completely
committed to storyboards.
If the storyboard doesn't
do something for you,
you can get in and participate
in that by writing code yourself.
There is a storyboarding applica--talk
introducing interface builder
storyboarding here Wednesday at 11:30.
It's a really,
really slick technology and it will
cut back on a bunch of that boilerplate
code that you guys have been writing.
So if you're interested,
please go to that too.
Here's UISlider.
It's not the sexiest UI class we have.
But we get a lot of requests
to be able to customize things.
And customizing UIKit has not
necessarily been some of the
easiest code anyone's written.
So what we've done in 5.0 is pushed
a bunch of customization API all
the way through all of our controls.
So at the most basic,
we've gone through and used tint
color on almost every single
control you can access in UIKit.
So that's in Slider's case,
that's the tint color for both the
minimum and maximum track and the thumb.
For switches,
the section that has on in it, right,
you can tint that.
So you'll be able to push tint color
all the way through including things
like your navigation bars and your
toolbars and the toolbar items and
all of the back buttons and things
like that that are in your interface.
So if your designers
come to you and says,
hey, I've got this great color scheme,
I want you to push it all the
way through your application,
you can now do that in UIKit.
But we've gone further and
we've also allowed you to put
images in all of this stuff.
So you can specify your own track image,
your own thumb image,
you can specify your own
images for UI navigation bars,
you can specify your
own images for toolbars,
you can specify your own images for
almost everything in UIKit itself.
So there's a lot of new customization
API on the individual instances.
So hopefully that will cut back
on some of the methods whistling
we've been seeing in UIKit.
So the way you would configure
an individual UI slider is
by just sending it a message,
right?
UI slider, a slider,
set minimum tracked in color, UI color,
red color and that changes it to red.
But if you wanted to do this for every
single UI slider in your application,
You could write a bunch of boilerplate
code and wrap that up and make
sure that you always call your
code in order to get a UI slider.
It's kind of a drag.
We've introduced an idea of an
appearance proxy into UIKit.
So what you would do is send the
appearance message to the class.
OK, you're a little early, but that's OK.
You'd send the appearance
message to the class,
and then you'd send the same API that
you would use to configure a single
instance to the appearance proxy.
Now every single UI slider you create
comes out with that red tint color.
The appearance proxy is new for iOS 5.0.
And it means that if you know
how to configure one instance,
you know how to configure all of them.
Really simple.
This is one of two methods in the
entire UIAppearance.h header in
the Appearance Proxy protocol.
The other one you'll have to come
to our appearance talk later.
We've gone through and also tagged all
of the selectors that participate in this
system with the UIAppearanceSelector tag.
So this is your indication that
you'll be able to send the Appearance
Proxy for that particular class
that setter and get that to layout.
We're talking about all of this
stuff tomorrow here in the Presidio
at 2 o'clock right after lunch.
So if you're here for
the--for Waves talk,
just stay put, all right.
You'll be able to learn more about
all the stuff that we've put into
the individual customizations as
well as how to really fine tune the
customization of your application.
So.
Here's iBooks.
You guys have probably seen iBooks,
right?
This is the Objective-C programming
language guide,
the sending messages to nil section,
a little bit of language esoterica.
That's actually not the
important part here.
The important part is the page curl.
We've actually introduced
UI page view controller to UIKit.
And it does this.
It turns out if you've ever written
this-- this is a lot of math,
right?
So page view controller is a new
class in UIKit and I have a demo
of this that I'd like to show you.
So let's cut over here
to the demo system.
There we go.
Andromeda Galaxy is alive and well.
The really slick thing about this demo
actually is you guys all have it if
you're installing the beta because the
demo is pretty much a new project and
you ask for a page based application.
And we'll call this pager demo.
We'll make it universal.
There's the use storyboard check mark.
We're not going to use that today.
But we'll throw this up on the desktop.
And here it is.
And you know what?
I'm just going to run this
on the iPad simulator.
In portrait mode, January, a good month,
but we're not in that.
If I just run over to the side of
the simulator here and just click,
you see that page effect.
If I just start mousing
and dragging here--
And you'll notice too,
this is actually putting,
I don't know if you can
see that at the top,
let me grab a different part here.
If I start really bending it,
you'll see that May here shows
up on the back of this page,
right?
You can actually see the back of the
page put through on portrait mode.
You can see that other part.
If I rotate,
I can kick it into a two up mode.
And so we've got May and June here.
And instead of seeing the
back of the previous page,
what you'll see is the next
view controller in sequence.
There's July, right?
Automatically.
[Transcript missing]
We're not in two up mode on the phone,
but does this.
So there's some interesting
things about the pager demo.
And again, this is the template that
you get for creating a page
based application in Xcode.
We've organized this in
a fairly specific way.
There's both a delegate
and a data source.
And the data source is just a
thing that feeds view controllers
into the page view controller.
So it works very similar
to the UI table view code.
So let's kick back to the slides.
as if by magic.
You initialize one of these if you
haven't created it in the Xcode template,
you can initialize one with--in
it with transition style
navigation orientation options.
The transition style right now,
there's one.
It's this page view controller
with the pagey bendy pages.
The navigation orientation is what
direction is the tear happening?
Is it happening like a book?
Is it happening like a calendar?
Right?
So you can go up and down as well
as left and right and the options,
there's a dictionary there
that you can pass in.
This is all in the UI table view--page
view controller dot h header.
It has a delegate and a data source.
There are two very different
things that these do.
The delegate tells you things like,
did the page view
controller finish animating,
what the previous view controllers
were on the screen and whether
or not a transition completed.
So this is whether or not they
actually made it all the way through
the animation or whether it flipped
back to the old orientations.
And on rotation,
you get a page view controller spine
location for interface orientation.
And this is a very descriptive API,
so I couldn't fit everything
on the slide here.
But spine location is where
does that split happen,
right?
Is the binding, you can think of it as
the binding of a book,
right?
Is the binding at the bottom,
in the middle or at the top
horizontally or at the right,
middle or left edge vertically?
So you can, this is how when you rotate,
you can switch into the one
up mode or you can go two up,
even vertically and things like that.
The data source is even simpler.
Two methods.
We need you to tell us the view
controller before a view controller,
depending on which way they're going,
and the view controller
after a view controller.
So if you're in one up mode,
you'd get one call for this probably for,
you know, view controller after the
one that's on the screen.
If you're in two up mode,
you'll get two calls.
One for the one that's after
the rightmost one and then
the one that's after that.
So that we can take those two,
lay them out and do the effect
when you open the book or turn that
page to be able to put them up.
We're also talking a lot
about view controllers.
The page view controller is very slick,
but, um,
When we first came out
with the iPhone SDK,
all we had was the phone.
And when you were creating
a UI view controller,
we really encourage you to write
your view controllers to take
over the entire screen and to
manage screenfuls of information.
Well, that was great,
except that then we came out with
this device with a bigger screen,
and the tendency was to want to
manage sections of the screen with
individual UI view controllers.
So this view hierarchy has two views.
They're controlled by view controllers.
The one on the index zero
for the split view controller
is a navigation controller.
It has in it a table view controller.
The one on the left at index
one is a custom view controller.
We wrote it.
It shows need information.
That hierarchy looks a
little bit like this.
And in sort of all of our
previous UIKit development,
the containers were mostly written by us,
right?
So you had a split view controller that
managed two sections of the screen.
You had a navigation controller
that would manage entire sections
of the screen and it kept track
of its children and it sent the
rotation callbacks and things like
that to the child view controllers.
You guys mostly filled in the leaf nodes.
Things like your custom view controllers,
the table view controller that you
subclass in order to put your own
data into and things like that.
In iOS 5.0,
we are opening up the API so that you can
write your own container view classes,
view controller classes.
So writing a container is
actually pretty straightforward.
We've made public the parent-child
relationship between view controllers.
So there's add child view controller
and remove from parent view controller.
These are kind of special.
You should treat these methods
effectively as sort of protected
methods on UI view controller.
Your subclass will call these directly
to be able to add the children in,
right?
So you might have, you know,
some split view replacement that you're
writing or something like that and
you've got a set view controllers method.
It takes an array of UI view controllers.
That method would call these, right,
to add the view controllers in.
Once you've added a
child view controller,
we take care of automatically
forwarding the rotation callbacks
and all of the view will appear and
view did appear and all of those
callbacks to your children for you.
So you can also get the array
of child view controllers.
This is just an accessor so
you can manage that array.
And there's also API now for doing better
transitions between view controllers,
right?
So transition from view
controller to view controller,
duration, options, animations,
completion.
You put your animations in there,
completion block.
This is the new transition API.
It's very easy to use.
Well, it's a good thing we
have code completion,
There is an implementing
UI view controller container
containment talk today at 1015.
It's in the marina right next door.
So if you're writing view controller
containers or if you think you need
to write view controller containers,
this is the talk to go to.
We're going to go into incredible
detail on everything that you can
do to really manage entire trees
of view controllers that are going
to manage sections of the screen.
The other thing they'll do
is show you a lot more about
UI page view controller as well.
So there are a lot of things
that you can do with it.
It's a very powerful API that
you can use to get really great
effects in your application.
So go next door, 1015, to see that.
Working with documents.
You saw the iCloud demos.
UI document,
if you've used NSDocument on the desktop,
UI document is very similar.
It uses the same more modern
approach that we've been
introducing on the desktop.
You can initialize one with the URL.
You can get back the file URL and you can
return a localized name to your users.
If you're managing undo yourself
in a UI document subclass,
you can set your own NSUndo manager.
for that.
This is a great way just to manage
documents within your application.
We do a lot of the heavy lifting for you.
You'll probably override
these four methods.
Open and close with completion handler.
We're making a fairly strong
statement here about making sure
that the user's interaction with
your application is never blocked.
If you're going off and you're loading
something from the network or you're
reading a huge document off of disk,
if you're doing that on a main thread,
you've only got five seconds before
the watchdog comes along and says,
no more.
You're done.
So the open and close will happen on
a background thread automatically.
And when it's done,
you'll get a callback on
the completion handler.
Load from contents of type error and
contents for type are your opportunity
to read and write your content.
So load from contents of type
error is where you're handed
an NSData or a file wrapper,
and that's your opportunity
to create your document.
Contents for type error.
Is where the system is
asking you for your data,
either an NSData or an NS file wrapper,
so that you can write that out to disk.
It also has a number of different
ways of working with errors.
On iOS, there are a couple of cases
where your user might be able
to interact with the device,
and then suddenly they can't.
They get a phone call,
they hit the home button,
things like that.
Handle error user interaction
permitted is where we tell you,
hey, something went wrong.
Here's the error.
The error is localized.
It has localized recovery
suggestions and things like that.
It's the same NSError that you've
worked with from Foundation before.
User interaction permitted.
If this is yes,
that means that there's actually,
your app is still running,
the user can still tap the screen,
and you can get information from
them about what they might want to
do with the error that happened.
Finished handling error
recovered is your opportunity
to tell the UI document system,
hey,
that error you gave me a few minutes ago,
yeah, I handled that.
It's good.
I got this.
If you weren't able to recover,
then we go back and go into
the automatic fallback.
That's the fallback behavior
for UI document itself.
User interaction no longer
permitted for error.
You may have gotten a handle error
user interaction permitted yes earlier.
If the user gets a call,
if the user hit the home button
while that error was happening,
if the user gets, you know,
an alert--if an alert pops up,
they can't interact with
your application anymore.
This is your opportunity to squirrel
all that data away so that when the
user does come back to your application,
you can try and recover
with them at the same time.
So that if they restart your app,
you've got something that means that
the user hasn't lost their data.
There are a bunch of different states
that UI document moves through.
State normal, closed,
in conflict is interesting.
I won't tell you why yet.
Saving error and editing disabled.
There are a bunch of different
states this moves through.
The in conflict one is
there for iCloud storage.
One of the big reasons that we've
published UI document is that if you're
overriding those four methods and you
tell us that this is an iCloud document,
we're going to take care of all
of the heavy lifting of handling,
notifying the cloud storage system
that it's there and moving that
document around from device to
device for your users automatically.
So if you override those four
methods and kick this document
into cloud storage mode,
you're done.
Your app now supports iCloud storage.
should be a great feature for your users.
The Document State Accessor just is your
opportunity to go back when you get the
UI Document State Change notification
and find out what happened.
There is a storing documents
in iCloud using iOS 5 talk here
Wednesday at 3:15 where we will go
over all of this stuff as well as
some demos and things like that.
So please come by.
If you're going to be using iCloud
and you have documents that your
users are going to want on every
single one of their devices,
and the short answer is your users
probably want your documents on
every single one of their devices,
you should come see this talk.
The Assets Library now has
access for adding group albums.
So if you're going to tack on
a new photo or create a new
photo album for your users,
you can do that with the
Add Assets Group Album with
Name API and the result block.
And you can also now add assets
to an asset group yourself.
Right, so if you've got a photo app or
something like that where you're
working with the AL Asset Library,
you can now do some
of these nifty things.
Write modified image data
to saved photos album,
metadata completion block.
This is your opportunity to take an
existing AL asset and modify it somehow
and put a modified copy of that asset
right into the saved photos album.
And set image data
metadata completion block.
You'll actually be able to
replace that data in the album.
GameKit.
Scott talked a little bit about
GameKit on stage yesterday.
There's now default leaderboard
support in GameKit and for player
photos as well so you can find
out who's been killing you online.
And turn-based multiplayer games.
The essential game technologies
for iOS part one is happening
right now so if you're here,
you're not seeing that talk.
But it is being repeated
later in the week so you'll be
able to go see the part one.
You should look on your
schedules for that.
Part two is in the
mission Tuesday at 10:15.
If you're doing anything with GameKit,
this will be a great session to go
to to add turn-based multiplayer
games to your application.
Core Data, there's a lot of new stuff in
Core Data both on the desktop and on iOS.
There's compound index
support for entities,
incremental stores,
store specific migrations and they are
doing a lot of work also to support
iCloud storage on Core Data databases.
So there's a lot of stuff here.
If you're a Core Data client,
the iOS talk is in the
mission Tuesday at 3.15.
You can go see that.
There's also,
if you're programming for the desktop,
a desktop talk as well.
Newsstand Kit.
New framework in iOS 5 supports
newspaper and magazine subscriptions.
This is some of the stuff
that Scott talked about
on stage yesterday also.
There is a newsstand
library per application.
So if you manage magazines
or newspaper subscriptions,
you get a library for your
application and this is the
API that's going to allow you to
manage the issues in your application
as well as downloading new issues,
including downloading content
that has multiple parts.
So you might have a big HTML document
and all of the assets that go
along with that HTML document.
And also all of the API that you need to
touch off your background downloading.
So when the user goes to sleep and puts
their iPad down and they wake up the next
morning and you want to get that content,
it's already there.
All of the API to do
that is in Newsstand Kit.
And there's a building newsstand
apps talk in the marina at 4.30.
So that's a great talk to
go to for newsstand options.
Twitter integration.
There's a Twitter integration
talk here Thursday at 2.
The big hitter here is we take care
of all the authorization for you.
There's a new accounts framework
on iOS which works in conjunction
with the Twitter framework.
So you'll be able to do
Twitter integration into your
application right off the bat.
So you can come see that.
Core Image on iOS.
How many of you actually do image
effects in your application?
If you've been doing that on the desktop,
this should be very familiar to you.
All of the filters,
vectors and colors and things like that
are all available to you in iOS now.
Also, new detectors.
For instance, the face detection
algorithm is built into iOS.
You have access to that.
The image orientation stuff,
so you can find all--what orientation
the image might be in if you don't
have that information off the camera.
Edge detection,
all that stuff now you can
do right on the device.
Using Core Image on iOS and
MacOSX in the mission Thursday at
2:00 if you're doing any kind of
great effects with your application,
this is where you want to be.
And finally,
GLKit is a new framework on iOS 5.
If you're doing OpenGL stuff,
our examples on the website and one of
the templates just takes an OpenGL view
and puts it right into the window.
OpenGL, the GL Kit guys have put together
an Objective-C framework that
really lowers the barrier to
using OpenGL in your application.
There are two big hitter classes in here,
GLKView and GLKViewController.
The view controller is really
interesting because if you make that
the root view controller of your
application and you rotate the device,
it will go through and put the
appropriate OpenGL transform
onto that GLK view and rotate
it for you automatically.
So if you've ever been playing a game
and you got the game center sheet that
came up upside down because the game was
handling its translations on its own,
this can help out.
So there's a lot of built-in logic
that helps OpenGL work with UIKit.
Advances in OpenGL ES for iOS 5 in
the mission Wednesday at 2 o'clock.
So if you're using OpenGL,
please take a look at this talk.
There are also a couple of
related iOS sessions for UIKit.
There's a talk on iOS printing if you're
doing printing in your application
in Russian Hill Tuesday at 3:15 and
there's a polishing your app tips and
tricks talk at--in mission Tuesday at 2.
And there's a polishing your app tips and
And there--there's a lot of
really great performance and
responsiveness information in
that--in that second talk there.
So if you're going to be--you're
really looking to make sure
that your app functions really
well and is very responsive,
please go to this talk.
We'll talk about instruments
and everything else you
can do to debug your stuff.
More information, Bill Dudney,
Applications Frameworks
Evangelist extraordinaire.
You've probably seen him running around.
He's also doing a graphics
and drawing talk this week.
So if you're doing any graphics by hand,
you should go see that.
Documentation of Dev Center and
the developer forums.
Please come see us.
We're here all week.
So thank you very much for coming.
Enjoy.